hi I was wondering your thoughts on
quitting gaming cold turkey and how to
maintain that and if you agree with it
okay so this is a great question
so I think that so the first thing is
when people think about video game
addiction we pull a lot of stuff about
how to deal with video game addiction
from other addictions so most of our the
common wisdom on addictions comes from
this thing called substance use
disorders so this is like alcohol and
heroin and like cocaine and things like
that and we think about those as
addictions and we think about the way to
overcome an addiction that playbook was
written for substance use disorders it
was written for like alcoholism and so
now we have a whole new swath of like
new addictions social media addiction
Netflix addiction video game addiction
social media addiction right like and as
we have these new addictions we want to
apply like the old pattern to the new
pattern and in my opinion substance use
disorders and behavioral addictions are
fundamentally different with the way
that they affect the brain doesn't mean
that the solutions for substance use
disorders can't help it's just like a
new disease and so a new disease in my
opinion requires a new solution so I
think that quitting cold turkey on games
can be helpful for some people that
works really well I think it's very a
very good idea to go on a gaming cleanse
we just sort of stay away from games for
a couple of weeks so that your dopamine
circuitry can like recalibrate and
normalize so that you can start to enjoy
other things but I don't think that
that's the only way which is something
that I see a lot like I know that there
are a lot of like people out there and
like treatment programs and stuff that
believe that abstinence is the only way
because that's how it works for like
alcohol but I don't think so I mean in
my case I definitely had a gaming
addiction I still play video games now
and I'm like not an addict I think the
number of people who have overcome video
games game addictions and can healthily
play video games far outweighs the
number of people who are addicted to
alcohol and can continue to drink in a
healthy way
so I don't think you have to quit
forever
and the last question all answer is like
they say at lask how do you maintain it
so I think this is kind of what I was
telling Skye is that you know you can't
maintain it all you can do is what like
not play games on that day so when I'm
talking to my patients who have
addictions you know they say like I have
a goal to be sober for one year it is
impossible to be sober for one year
impossible you can achieve one year of
sobriety but you can't be sober for a
year and what happens is people wake up
and they say like this time I'm
dedicated I'm gonna be sober for a year
they feel passionate they feel committed
they make a commitment to themself I'm
gonna do it for one year that's my
commitment I'm gonna lose 20 pounds I'm
gonna lose 50 pounds I'm I'm I'm
committed this time this time is
different
I've made up my mind I didn't make up my
mind before but I made up my mind
this time I'm gonna maintain it I'm
gonna stick with it this is what's gonna
happen not how it works you can't
maintain it you can't be sober for a
year all you can do is be sober for a
day and if you do that for 365 days in a
row you will be sober for a year but to
understand that you can't maintain
abstinence from video games you can just
not play them on that day so practically
what I think works way better and what I
do in my clinical practice rather than
attaining abstinence because there's
something you guys have to understand
video games do something for us
okay they do something very important
for us and you can't just take that away
so I was working with a kid who was
autistic and gets bullied at school and
then his parents are like yeah he plays
like way too many video games we want to
take it away and then like they didn't
realize that like the kids like his only
friends are on the Internet so you can't
just like stop playing it like if you
stop playing it he's gonna feel [ __ ]
alone in suicidal so you have to think
about what is the game doing for me like
what do I get out of the game and if you
wanna if you want to be free from video
games if you want to just play them and
not be
addicted to them if you want to be able
to play them have fun and not be
addicted you have to get the stuff that
the video game gives you in other parts
of your life like people talk about like
this person is like I want to quit
gaming and I want to stay away from
gaming you don't have to quit gaming you
just need to build a life that pulls you
away from the game that's the solution
that I believe in
that's what healthy gamer is all about
it's not like conquering video game
addiction it's like becoming a healthy
gamer you don't like start to have a job
that challenges you intellectually start
to like have people that you want to see
like get into shape so that you're not
embarrassed about like leaving your room
the only place that you get confidence
is because you're like a top tier like
raid leader and Wow or you're like
divine bracket or like diamond and wall
or whatever that's where you get your
confidence from that's the problem you
can't just take that away you're just
gonna be left with a bunch of no
confidence like you've taken the one
thing that supports your ego and gives
you community you just taking it away
what I want you to do is be free from
games be free from them don't need them
anymore
build a life that's worth living like if
RL doesn't suck you don't have to like
have you guys seen outside RPG this is
great so there's like this subreddit
called like slash are outside it's it's
beautiful they treat the real world like
it's an RPG and and like what I want you
guys to recognize is like you can build
your life to be worth living that's what
you should focus on and if you have
friends and if you feel engaged and if
you feel challenged and if you feel
confident in yourself and if you have
people who love you and respect you for
who you are in the real world you don't
need a video game you can still enjoy it
I still like playing video games but to
build a fulfilling life that's the goal
and if you do that then then then gaming
like conquering gaming addiction is not
a struggle like that's what you guys
really have to understand is that what
this person is saying is that thoughts
on quitting gaming cold turkey and how
to maintain it right that means that
that is a daily struggle that that
person is fighting
using willpower day after day after day
after day and at one point they're gonna
have a bad day and they're gonna crack
that's the problem the people who are
truly sober from alcohol give it up they
don't have to struggle every day they're
like you know what my life is actually
better without it if I choose a life of
sobriety or I choose a life like I'm
just tired of being hungover every day
that [ __ ] sucks
when they say things like that then they
don't want to go to the alcohol that's
what I'm that's what I think you should
do